.TH EARL 1 "April 2026" "earl-sdk" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
earl \- command-line interface for EARL SDK
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B earl
[\fIGLOBAL_OPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fICOMMAND_OPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBearl\fR command is a scriptable CLI for interacting with the EARL platform.
It wraps existing SDK functionality for auth profiles, catalog exploration,
pipeline management, simulations, client-driven response loops, local run storage,
and interactive chat.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B --profile \fINAME\fR
Use saved profile from \fI~/.earl/config.json\fR.
.TP
.B --env \fIlocal|dev|test|prod\fR
Override environment.
.TP
.B --client-id \fIID\fR
Auth0 client ID.
.TP
.B --client-secret \fISECRET\fR
Auth0 client secret.
.TP
.B --organization \fIORG_ID\fR
Auth0 organization ID.
.TP
.B --output \fItable|json\fR
Select output formatter.
.TP
.B --verbose
Show traceback on command errors.
.SH COMMAND GROUPS
.TP
.B auth
Manage auth profiles and test connectivity.
.TP
.B doctor
Manage saved doctor endpoint configurations.
.TP
.B cases
List and inspect case catalog entries.
.TP
.B patients
List and inspect patient catalog entries.
.TP
.B dimensions
List, inspect, and create dimensions.
.TP
.B verifiers
Inspect platform-wide generic verifier catalog.
.TP
.B pipelines
Create, update, inspect, and delete pipelines.
.TP
.B simulations
Start, monitor, inspect, and control simulations.
.TP
.B runs
Manage local run cache in \fI~/.earl/runs\fR.
.TP
.B config
Inspect local configuration paths and summary.
.TP
.B prefs
Inspect or modify local preferences.
.TP
.B chat
Start interactive chat flow (requires UI extras).
.TP
.B whoami
Print resolved environment/organization/API URL metadata.
.TP
.B rate-limits
Show org-level and category-level rate limits.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List recent simulations:
.B earl simulations list --limit 20
.TP
Start simulation:
.B earl simulations start --pipeline my-pipeline --num-episodes 5 --parallel-count 2
.TP
Wait for completion:
.B earl simulations wait sim_123 --poll-interval 5
.TP
Client-driven response submit:
.B earl simulations respond sim_123 ep_456 --message "Thanks for sharing that."
.TP
Start interactive chat:
.B earl chat start
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.earl/config.json
Saved auth profiles, doctor configs, and preferences.
.TP
.I ~/.earl/runs/
Local run reports and index.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Command failed or invalid arguments.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR earl-ui (1),
.BR python (1)
